We are going to use a website called
responsive breakpoints that is
gonna help us make a whole bunch of
images for source set and sizes.
And it will write us some
code to go with that.
And I want to demonstrate what I
mean by the browser's going to
make the choice of the image.
And so inside of your chapter 6,
GitHub files,
there is a folder called Banner demo.
When, if you take a look inside of it,
you'll find banners dot HTML.
And you'll also see that I have
a folder here called banners.
So inside of banners,
there are six different versions of the
same Banner at different dimensions here.
And then there's an HTML file.
The HTML file is super simple and
there is no CSS at all.
All the HTML does is,
it has the single image element in it.
And inside of that you see here
we have sizes here on line 12.
It says for a max width of 1200 pixels
display at 100 viewport widths,
otherwise display it at 1200 pixels.
In other words,
just display it full width all the time.
And then source set here has given
you the conditions under which we
have different images
that are available here.
And then of course we have
the default version of this banner.
And so this particular code came from
the responsive breakpoints website.
Which I'm gonna go through
with you in just a moment.
But then what I did was once I got
my banners back I opened up an image
editing program.
And I wrote the dimension of the banner
on each one of these images so
we could see how they changed.
So when to display this inside of Chrome.
This is Chrome and as you see here I've
got the browser window maximized and
this is at 1200 is the banner exactly
probably as you would expect.
And so
as I start to make the screen smaller,
you'd expect that somewhere
along the way here.
We're gonna swap out the banner,
right at least once if not more than that.
But look at this.
It's just staying at 1200 the entire time.
No matter how small we get down,
it's still trying to load 1200.
And when I first saw this,
I thought, no, what did I do wrong?
I broke my code and everything else.
But then I took a look at
this inside of Firefox.
Same exact web page now
just displayed in Firefox.
And you'll notice here that as I
reduce the size of this web browser,
we do switch to a different size picture.
So here, we're at 533 pixels wide,
we're switching to the 1084 image.
And then when I think about it,
that may actually make sense.
I am working on a Mac-book Pro
that has retina on it.
So it looks like just judging
from the numbers here.
It's choosing the images based on
the fact that this is 2x pixel density.
Something I didn't even account for
inside of my code.
But remember the browser's
making the choice here and
this is one of the things
it's thinking about.
So then as I get smaller then I go to
958 at about roughly half that value.
And I can't go any smaller here inside
of just looking at Firefox this way.
If you put it in browser tools you can
continue to make the window smaller.
And you can find it will continue to
load different versions of the picture.
So this is the point I'm
trying to make to you.
It depends it really depends you write
this code and you have no control
over which image is going to get
displayed inside of your browser window.
And you're going to trust the browser
to make the right choice I even
tried putting the stuff up online.
Thinking maybe if it was on a server it
would behave a little bit differently like
on a real actual server.
And that nothing dead did not change the
performance of either Firefox or Chrome.
Feel free to test with Safari or
edge my results was Safari
were the same as Chrome's.
Probably because they're both WebKit.
But maybe edge would do something
different I just don't have edge here on
my computer.